`@plone/registry` as ESM module, move to TS, complete documentation (#6399)
plone/volto: docs/source/upgrade-guide/index.md

You might catch some violations in your project or add-on code after running ESlint.
Adding the missing `key` property whenever the violation is reported will fix it.

### `@plone/registry` moved to ESM

The `@plone/registry` package has been moved to ESM.

> This unfortunately forces some import paths changes that should be patched in your Plone project or add-on boilerplates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This unfortunately forces some import path changes that should be patched in your Plone project or add-on boilerplates.
```

```{note}

> As always that something changes in the boilerplate, you have the option to regenerate one from Cookieplone and move your code into it instead of fiddling with it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As always, when something changes in the boilerplate, you may regenerate one from Cookieplone and move your code into it, instead of fiddling with it.
```

```

> in `razzle.config.js`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, in {file}`razzle.config.js`:
```

You might catch some violations in your project or add-on code after running ESlint.
Adding the missing `key` property whenever the violation is reported will fix it.

### `@plone/registry` moved to ESM

The `@plone/registry` package has been moved to ESM.
This unfortunately forces some import path changes that should be patched in your Plone project or add-on boilerplates.

```{note}
As always, when something changes in the boilerplate, you may regenerate one from Cookieplone and move your code into it, instead of fiddling with it.
```

> For example, in your projects {file}`.eslintrc.js`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, in your project's {file}`.eslintrc.js`:
```

```diff
 const fs = require('fs');
 const projectRootPath = __dirname;
-const AddonConfigurationRegistry = require('@plone/registry/src/addon-registry');
+const AddonConfigurationRegistry =
+  require('@plone/registry/addon-registry').default;
```

> also, in the Storybook configuration {file}`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also in the Storybook configuration {file}`INSERT_FILE_NAME_HERE`.
```

You might catch some violations in your project or add-on code after running ESlint.
Adding the missing `key` property whenever the violation is reported will fix it.

### `@plone/registry` moved to ESM

The `@plone/registry` package has been moved to ESM.
The Add-on Registry scripts have also been refactored to TypeScript.

> For maximum compatibility with CommonJS builds, the default exports have been moved to named exports.

Author: I've already evaluated the possibility, but it has a downside: It does not allow other named exports to exist along with it:

```
One inconvenience to this approach is that you’re not allowed to include other top-level named exports alongside the export =:
```

I thought that it might be better not to mess around with them and move all to be named. Also the fact of having a default and some named does not have much value anyways, also the usage becomes easier to remember afterwards.

The user does not really have to mess around with it (except for the files mentioned in the upgrade guide), and all is kept internally. For the out-of-Volto experience, I think that the solution is better too and unifies things.

> For maximum compatibility with CommonJS builds, the default exports have been moved to named exports.

Reviewer 2: @sneridagh Ok, right. I thought that didn't apply to these since they use the default export, but I was just wrong: of course they have named exports too.

### `@plone/registry` moved to ESM

The `@plone/registry` package has been moved to ESM.
The Add-on Registry scripts have also been refactored to TypeScript.
For maximum compatibility with CommonJS builds, the default exports have been moved to named exports.

> The modules affected are now built, and the import paths now have changed too.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The modules affected are now built, and the import paths have changed, too.
```

> These changes forces some import path changes that should be patched in your Plone project or add-on boilerplates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These changes force some import path changes that should be patched in your Plone project or add-on boilerplates.
```
